The Project Gutenberg EBook of Nibble Rabbit Makes More Friends, by John
Breck

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this ebook.

Title: Nibble Rabbit Makes More Friends

Author: John Breck

Illustrator: William T. Andrews

Release Date: December 18, 2020 [EBook #64078]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Roger Frank

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NIBBLE RABBIT MAKES MORE
FRIENDS ***




                    NIBBLE RABBIT MAKES MORE FRIENDS




                       Told at Twilight Stories


                            By JOHN BRECK

                   MOSTLY ABOUT NIBBLE THE BUNNY
                   NIBBLE RABBIT MAKES MORE FRIENDS
                   THE SINS OF SILVERTIP THE FOX
                   THE COON’S TRICKS
                   THE WAVY TAILED WARRIOR
                   TAD COON’S GREAT ADVENTURE
                   THE BAD LITTLE OWLS
                   THE JAY BIRD WHO WENT TAME




[Illustration: Watch makes friends with Nibble]




                       Told at Twilight Stories

                   NIBBLE RABBIT MAKES MORE FRIENDS

                                  by
                              John Breck

                            Illustrated by
                          William T. Andrews

                         Garden City—New York
                      Doubleday, Page & Company

                                 1923




                           COPYRIGHT, 1923,
                     BY DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY

                 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, INCLUDING THAT
                OF TRANSLATION INTO FOREIGN LANGUAGES
                      INCLUDING THE SCANDINAVIAN

            COPYRIGHT, 1920, BY THE ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS

                     PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES
                                  AT
              THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS, GARDEN CITY, N. Y.

                            First Edition




                                CONTENTS

               I. Why Nibble Bunny Was Puzzled
              II. How Nibble the Bunny Was Caught
             III. How Nibble Tricked a Foe—and Made a Friend
              IV. Why Dogs Love Babies
               V. Nibble Has His Doubts About Dogs
              VI. The Cleverness of Chirp Sparrow
             VII. How a Bunny Could Help a Boy
            VIII. How the Funny Bunny Smelled a Joke
              IX. The Great Woodchuck Fur Charm Against Owls
               X. What Doctor Muskrat Thought About Traps
              XI. The Singular Mishap of Doctor Muskrat
             XII. Tommy Peele’s Friends Stand Up For Him
            XIII. Wise Words from a Wise Beast




                        LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

        Watch makes friends with Nibble

        Nibble squirmed and flounced like a fish

        The White Cow makes friends with Nibble

        “Here he is. I’ve got him.”

        The old doctor was puffing

        Snoof Woodchuck comes out of his hole

        “Clang!” That ugly trap had Doctor Muskrat

        Tommy’s tall rubber boots spattered through the slush




                   NIBBLE RABBIT MAKES MORE FRIENDS




                              CHAPTER I

                     WHY NIBBLE BUNNY WAS PUZZLED


You remember all the funny things Nibble heard about Man from the
guests who came to his Storm Party. That was the time the Big Hollow
Oak blew down, and the brave little bunny who lived at Doctor
Muskrat’s Pond rescued all the poor homeless folk who had been shaken
out of it. He showed them the way to a fine little tent all made of
cornstalks out in the Broad Field.

It was so nice and snug and comfortable, the minute they tucked their
tails inside it, and caught their breaths, and sleeked down their fur
and their feathers, they forgot all about how the Terrible Storm was
having a tantrum outside. They had plenty of room to dance, and plenty
of corn for refreshments—why, the party was as big a success as if
they’d held it in a hired hall with engraved invitations.

But the most fun they had was talking about folks like you and me. And
if you’d laid an ear to a crack before the wind tucked the snow
blanket all around them, you wouldn’t have been very much flattered by
what they said, either.

You might have overheard the bats insisting that Man looked like a
frog. (You might say that about some folks, of course, but certainly
not about you or me.) You’d prob’ly have heard the partridge say that
Man was brown and wrinkly, like Grandpop Snapping-Turtle. (The man
they saw certainly must have worn some funny clothes.) Chatter
Squirrel said Man was pink and tan. (His pink was sunburn—the kind the
fellows get down at the swimming-hole.)

Everyone just knew that everyone else was wrong. Then Gimlet
Woodpecker insisted Man came as many shapes and sizes and colours as
the flowers. And then they didn’t know what to think. There were just
two things they all agreed on: he didn’t have a tail, and—he was
dangerous. Nibble didn’t say anything, ’cause he’d never seen one.

But the first time he set eyes on Tommy Peele, he made up his mind
they were all wrong—excepting about the tail. The little boy looked to
him like a red-wing blackbird. (That was ’cause Tommy had on his new
red mittens and his dark blue sweater and his shiny rubber boots.) But
dangerous? He certainly didn’t look it. Still—when Silvertip the Fox
only caught a glimpse of him, he turned tail and ran.

So Nibble made up his mind to copy the mouse motto: “Say nothing and
stay cautious.” At least that’s what he thought he was—too cautious
for anything. Wasn’t it perfectly safe and proper to dig into that
queer lair where the mice were holding a party of their own? Wasn’t it
nice and dark as his own hole? And nobody could possibly see him.

How was a bunny to know it was a soapbox? Or that it was part of a
“figger-four” trap? Or that Tommy had set it ’specially for him?

You see he hadn’t been caught. He’d dug into it on purpose, because
those nice little mice had invited him. And there the three of them
were busy feasting when they heard the clump! clump! clump! of the
clumsy hind paws of that little boy.

“Mice,” he said, “it’s that Man!”

Before he could twiddle a tail, Tommy’s red mitten was across the
hole, and Tommy’s bare pink paw was closing on—the lady mouse. Then
things began to fly!

Nibble was among them. He flew to the next little cornstalk tent, his
heart thumping faster than his paws. “They were all of them right!” he
gasped. “That Man is dangerous—dangerous as Silvertip himself. Poor
Satin-skin! I s’pose that’s the end of her.”

He never thought of saying, “Poor Tommy Peele!” But Tommy was the
right one to feel sorry for. Satin-skin had closed her little needle
teeth on his finger. And before Nibble had taken a long breath he
heard a voice squeaking, “Weeak! weeak! weeak!” which is mouse for,
“I’m lost! Where are you?”

“Here!” he thumped with both hind feet. And who should come scuttling
in but Satin-skin herself? He could feel her tremble all over as she
tried to squirm right under him.

“My ears!” Nibble exclaimed. “I thought that Man had caught you!”

“No, I caught him!” wept the little lady mouse. “But he shook me so
hard I was scared to let go again. And when I did, he sent me tail
over ears. I tell you, it was awful! wee-eeak!”

“Shh! he’ll hear you,” Nibble warned. “There, your head will stop
whirling pretty soon.” He knew just how she felt, ’cause he’d felt the
same way himself—the time he tumbled off the back of that Red Cow he
took for a log when Silvertip was chasing him.

But Tommy wasn’t even thinking about Satin-skin, let alone listening
for her. He stamped his tall rubber boots and sucked his poor nipped
finger. “Funniest thing!” he wondered to himself. “I just know there
was a rabbit in that trap. I saw him go in there. I don’t guess it’s
very much good. I’ll try the pitcher-wire.”

[Illustration: Nibble squirmed and flounced like a fish on the end of a
line.]

So he pulled on his red mitten and tramped off to the path in the
bushes by the fence he’d seen Nibble slip through. This time he bent
down a springy sapling and tied a loop of wire to the tip of it—the
soft kind you use to hang pictures. And he pegged the lower edge of
the loop across Nibble’s pathway.




                              CHAPTER II

                   HOW NIBBLE THE BUNNY WAS CAUGHT


Meanwhile, Nibble was busy comforting the lady mouse. “There, there!
Don’t squeal any more. You’re not hurt a bit. But really, this gets
more and more curiouser. Now Silvertip would certainly have eaten you.
But I don’t see yet why folks are so scared of a Man, if that’s all he
can do to you.”

“You’d know if he sh-sh-shook you!” sobbed the lady mouse.

But Nibble didn’t pay any attention. “I’m going to sneak up close to
the Sparrows’ Tree and ask Chirp about it,” he announced.

Off went he, so fast he didn’t notice where he was putting his foot
own.

He came to the fence—and the picture-wire. Zing! Now he knew what a
trap was, for sure and certain. For the pegs let go, the sapling
snapped back, and the wire caught him just behind his little fore legs
and whipped him high up in the air.

He squirmed and flounced like a fish on the end of a line. He kicked
harder and harder; and the wire pulled tighter and tighter, until he
screamed.

From way up there in the air he could see Tommy Peele turn around and
hurry toward him, swinging his red mittens as he ran. And he knew
Tommy had something to do with it. “This,” thought he, “is why Man is
dangerous. How awfully slow he flies. Now he’ll eat me!” And the wire
was squeezing him so dreadful, he didn’t much care. But Tommy just cut
that terrible loop, and took the rabbit gently into his arms.

“Poor little bunny! I didn’t know that was going to hurt you,”
whispered the little boy. And he put a very sorry finger on the place
where the picture wire had been.

But Nibble still kicked and struggled so hard that Tommy would have
lost him if he hadn’t kept a tight hold of the bunny’s long ears. And
Tommy did keep a tight hold, for the more he saw of Nibble the more he
wanted him.

In ten minutes Nibble was locked in a cage. It really was a very nice
one—for a rabbit who had been born there. But for Nibble it was as
cramped as Ouphe the Rat’s narrow black tunnels under the haystack. It
was only half a leap long and three creeps across. There was one dark
corner in it where he could hide behind some hay when the humans came
to look at him—and they did come, all sizes and colours and noises,
just as Gimlet the Woodpecker had said. When they went away again he
snubbed his nose trying to take the kinks out of his legs where he had
been sitting on them.

And more than the humans came to call on him. For the minute they
turned their backs a great big beast, much bigger than Silvertip, put
his forepaws up on the front of the cage and sniffed at him. He was
nearly the same colour as Silvertip, only his back was more grizzled
and he had a white collar as well as a white shirtfront like most wild
things wear. But this beast didn’t have a hungry look; he was only
curious—like Nibble is himself when he isn’t scared. All the same,
Nibble was afraid of him.

Just about sundown all these visitors went away. This was the chance
Chirp Sparrow was looking for. He flew down and perched on the cage.
Then he cheeped very softly, to make Nibble look at him.

Nibble pricked up an ear. Then he jumped so hard that he hit the front
of the cage and bounced back again, but he picked himself up and
thumped and wriggled his puffy tail trying to show Chirp how glad he
was to see him. “Mr. Chirp, Mr. Chirp!” he exclaimed. “You’ll know how
to help me. You know everything!”

“Well, not everything,” answered Chirp. But he preened the feathers on
his shoulders and cocked his head on one side the way birds do when
they’re pleased about anything. For he was immensely flattered. “I
don’t know everything,” he repeated, “but I’ll call a sparrow council,
and we’ll see what can be done about it.” And something’s pretty apt
to happen when the sparrows put their minds to anything.

“Now you listen to me,” he went on. “You eat what they feed you and
keep strong. You aren’t in any danger right away. And you try to make
friends with that Dog.”

“What Dog?” asked Nibble. He was puzzled.

“He was here just a minute ago,” said Chirp. “That big foxy-looking
beast. He’s a great friend of ours. He has a big dish by the back door
that’s always full of delicious things. And he pretends to go to sleep
while we pick up the crumbs. You be just as polite as you can to him.
I’ll be back in the morning.” And Chirp flitted off to the sparrow
roost, leaving Nibble almost cheerful again. He couldn’t help feeling
that all this excitement was rather interesting.




                             CHAPTER III

              HOW NIBBLE TRICKED A FOE—AND MADE A FRIEND


Tommy Peele had tried to make his cage a comfortable one for Nibble to
sleep in. But he didn’t know that a proper rabbit hole has fresh air
blowing into it from above. The cage had only one dark, stuffy corner
to hide in, or the open part behind a wire front. And there Nibble
crouched in the hay Tommy had given him. But he kept cheerful. Chirp
had said, “We’ll see what can be done about it,” and Nibble knew the
clever Sparrow. So he just made a little song of the words until he
sang himself to sleep with them.

Way ’long late toward the morning he woke up. His furry feet were
tickling. So were his ears. And presently his shoulders tickled, too,
where the fur stood straight up on them. Something was gnawing the
floor of his cage.

“Who’s there?” he called softly. And oh, how he did pray it might be
the field-mouse who had shown him the way through Ouphe’s tunnels! He
could see the haystack where the wicked Rat lived, but it was so dark
that that was all he could see.

“It’s I,” said the honey voice of Ouphe. “I’ve come to show you what
can be done about it. I’m sorry to be late, but I had to attend to a
little business with Chirp Sparrow.” The words were all right, but the
way he said them was enough to make your skin crawl.

“What are you going to do?” demanded Nibble.

“I’m going to have breakfast with you,” said Ouphe. “I’m going to make
a nice little door so I can come in and we’ll have a cozy time. I love
little rabbits, I do.” And Nibble knew very well the way he loved
them—like Slink the Weasel. For no wild beast needs to be warned
against any one who has the horrid musky, flesh-eater’s smell about
him. And Nibble smelled Ouphe.

“I’ll fasten my teeth right in your nose,” said Nibble, “the minute
you poke it through my floor.”

“What good will that do?” sneered Ouphe. “You’ll hurt me almost as
much as Chirp Sparrow. He pecked my ear, he did—the bold, bad bird!
All the same, I ate him.”

“You didn’t!” sobbed Nibble. He just couldn’t believe it.

“Didn’t I just?” jeered Ouphe. “You can smell him on my whiskers when
you bite me. Sparrow for supper and rabbit for breakfast. Mmn!” And he
smacked his lips.

But Nibble almost forgot to be scared, he was so angry. He thumped his
feet.

“Stop that!” snarled Ouphe. “Do you want the Dog to eat you?”

“Thump, Thump, THUMP!” went Nibble. He was bound to do whatever Ouphe
didn’t want him to.

“Arrh!” cursed the bad Rat. Kerflip, kerflop, he jumped down and
shuffled off to his haystack. Sure enough, there came the Dog,
calling, “What’s the matter here?” And Nibble was too scared to
answer.

“What’s the matter here?” repeated the Dog. He was standing in front
of the cage wagging his long, plumy tail. But all Nibble could look at
was the great teeth he showed when he smiled.

“Please,” said Nibble very faintly, “please, Mr. Dog, Ouphe the Rat
ate Chirp Sparrow for supper to-night. I thought I ought to tell you
because Chirp said you were friends.”

“He did, did he?” laughed the Dog. And he ran out his pink tongue,
which scared Nibble more than ever. “And who brought you the news?”

“Ouphe did. He’s been trying to get into my cage.”

“You don’t say?” The Dog sniffed carefully. “Great Bones, Bunny!” he
exclaimed, “Why didn’t you call me an hour ago. I’ll hate to show that
to Tommy. He’ll think I wasn’t watching.”

“Ouphe said you’d eat me,” whispered Nibble.

“Eat you?” repeated the Dog. “Lies! All lies! And Ouphe knew it. I’ll
tell you, Bunny, don’t believe a word that creature says. He never
tells the truth, even by accident. And he’s always up to some
devilment.”

Somehow Nibble knew he could believe the things the Dog said in his
rough but friendly voice. All the same, he wanted to be pretty
careful. “Why wouldn’t you want to eat me?” he asked.

“Why, because you belong to my Tommy. I’m not saying what I might do
if you didn’t,” answered the Dog, wagging his tail harder than ever
because he was so amused at Nibble. “Though I guess I’m too old and
fat to catch you. But as long as you live in my Man’s barns and have
my Man’s smell about you I’ll never touch you. My job is to take care
of my Man’s things and see that nobody hurts them.”

Now it was queer, but just the way that nice, big, growl Dog said he
might possibly try to catch him if he wasn’t Tommy Peele’s rabbit made
Nibble feel better. He felt the Dog wasn’t pretending like Ouphe the
Rat did after he’d been shouting horrid things at Chirp Sparrow. He
gave a little laugh—a sniffly one, because he wasn’t quite over being
afraid. “Please, Mr. Dog,” he murmured, “Chirp said I was to make
friends with you.”

“Well, then, my name is Watch,” the Dog continued; “it’s my job to
watch this farm and see that things don’t go wrong on it. And that’s
why you should have called me the minute Ouphe put his ugly teeth into
this.” He sniffed the gnawed spot on Nibble’s cage.

“Yes, sir.” Nibble apologized. “Chirp didn’t tell me that. He just
said you were once a wolf, like Silvertip—only much more clever.”

“Urr!” remarked Watch, cocking an ear. “So Chirp’s been going into my
family history? He’s a gossipy bundle of feathers.”

“No,” insisted Nibble honestly.

“Just about how the Wolves ate the Cows in the very First-Off
Beginning.”

“All right,” answered Watch. “Then I’ll finish it for myself.”




                              CHAPTER IV

                         WHY DOGS LOVE BABIES


“You know how the wolves ate the cows in the First-Off Beginning,”
said Watch, after he had taken a sniff to make sure Ouphe was still in
the haystack. “It was because the Plants just wouldn’t be eaten. And
they were too clever to starve.” He settled himself down by Nibble’s
cage.

“Yes,” answered Nibble, “and how the good stupid Cows did starve, so
Mother Nature had to give them horns because they’d worn all their
teeth off.” “Much good did that do them,” sniffed Watch. “Horns or no
horns, you just ought to see me handle them.” He was very proud of his
work, that nice dog.

“Well,” he went on, “some of us were terribly ashamed over the way
we’d acted. But Mother Nature wouldn’t forgive us. She said if we ever
were trusted we’d have to earn it ourselves. She’d never trust us. Her
good Beasts wouldn’t have anything to do with us, and we wouldn’t have
anything to do with the bad ones because we knew we weren’t as bad as
they were. And we got lonely and unhappy—so, of course, we got sulky
and snappy, too.

“Then the bad Beasts took to calling us ‘Dogs’—and that was a terrible
insult in those days. And deep down inside we were very, very
sorry—because we did so want to be trusted.

“One day a dog was walking all alone in the Forest and he saw the
funniest little Creature playing there. It was so funny he sat down on
his tail to watch it play. It hadn’t any teeth to speak of, and it
hadn’t any hair, but it walked like a little cub bear. Just like one.
It would stagger along a little ways and then it would sit down—plump!
And then it would laugh. So that made the dog prick up his ears.

“He liked the sound it made when it laughed so much that he stayed
there to listen to it. And pretty soon it saw him. But it didn’t run
away. It just walked right up to him. And the queerest feeling came
over that dog. He was happy, deep down inside him. Because it was
trusting him.

“So he sat very still. And the little thing walked right up and felt
of his teeth, and tried to find out how he winked his eyes. And the
more it hurt him the better he loved it because then he was sure it
was trusting him. And it had the sweetest smell. He put out his tongue
and tickled it; and, of course, it laughed again. So he found out how
to make it laugh whenever he wanted to. And they played out there in
the sun and were very happy.

“By and by a Man came running up and behind him was a woman. So, of
course, that dog knew that he had been playing with their Baby. And he
got up and crept away because he knew that least of all they would
have trusted him. But the Baby cried and held out its hands for him.

“All that night the dog was lonely because he’d lost the little soft
thing that laughed and trusted him. And he told the Moon about it.
Dogs always tell things to the Moon. And he was the most unhappy dog
in the Forest because he’d only learned half of the secret about being
trusted.”

Here Watch paused to rush at the haystack with a terrible bark because
he thought Ouphe was sticking his nose out again. “Wurff!” he cleared
his throat. “I’ll catch that fellow some day,” he remarked as he came
back to Nibble Rabbit’s cage and sat down again.

Nibble was waiting for him with his little feet pressed close to the
wires. He wasn’t afraid of any one while that dog was there to talk to
him. “Go on, please,” he demanded. “You said its Father and Mother
took away the little soft cub who had trusted him. And the poor dog
felt lonely.”

“Cub? I didn’t say ‘cub,’ Bunny. It was a Baby. My, but you are a
green little wild thing.” He smiled again, but this time Nibble wasn’t
afraid of the long teeth he showed.

“You said it was like a little bear,” Nibble insisted, and he wrinkled
up his own nose.

“Well, Cub or Puppy or Baby,” the dog went on. “That first dog wanted
it the worst way. So he just trailed its people back to where they
lived in a cave, and he hid up on top of the cave, where the gray
smoke came creeping up through a crack. And sometimes he’d hear it
laugh. And nobody thought of looking there for him.

“The dog would see the Man go out to hunt, and the Woman go down for
water, and he could hear the Baby pattering around inside the cave.
And then it would sit down, ‘plump!’ the way it did in the Forest. And
then it would laugh again. And the dog’s tongue would just itch to
tickle the Baby.

“So on the third day, when the Man went out to hunt and the Woman went
down for water, he sneaked around to the cave door and first thing he
knew he had his tickly tongue on the little soft thing. And his ears
were so full of the noises it made that he didn’t hear its mother’s
bare feet when she came back. And she threw the first thing that she
had in her hand—which was the water—all over him.

“Of course that didn’t hurt him. He didn’t exactly like it any more
than he liked the Baby’s fingers when they pulled his whiskers, but he
never imagined she was fighting. He thought she was playing with him.
So he trusted her—which is the whole secret about being trusted.

“And then wasn’t he glad. He just rolled around on the cave floor to
dry himself—though the cave floor was never very clean. And he
wriggled and giggled over it all. And he gave the Baby a lick with his
tickly tongue so it laughed with him. But the Woman just stood there
looking at him.

“Now, it’s a queer thing, Bunny, but Humans can’t stay angry if they
laugh. There was the dog, all sprawly legs and waggly tail, not
looking like a wolf at all, and the Baby laughing at him. And the
Woman began to laugh, too. ‘You look so funny,’ she said, ‘you’ve got
leaves in your whiskers.’ And so they were friends.”




                              CHAPTER V

                   NIBBLE HAS HIS DOUBTS ABOUT DOGS


“That was a lovely story.” Nibble chuckled, clear out to the tip of
his tufty bunny tail. He chuckled so hard he forgot he was locked up
in an uncomfortable cage, without a decent corner to snuggle in. “But
you haven’t told me yet how the First Dog made friends with his Man.
Go on. Please do.”

“N-no.” Watch answered thoughtfully, scratching his shoulder. “I’d
rather not. I’m afraid you mightn’t understand.”

“Yes, I would,” teased Nibble. “Of course I would. In the very
First-Off Beginning the dog made friends with the Baby and the Woman
because he made them laugh. Did he make the Man laugh, too?”

“Why—yes. I expect he did,”

Watch answered. “You see, the Man wasn’t friendly when he came home.
But the Woman and the Baby made him behave nicely. They always do.
That is, they wouldn’t let him hit the dog with his stone hammer, or
jab him with his spear. But he wouldn’t look at him. And the dog
wanted that Man to trust him—wanted it most of all.

“So he began following the Man when he went out to hunt. But the Man
threw stones at him as soon as they got where the Woman couldn’t see
him do it, and told him to keep out of the way. The dog just crept off
and hid.

“He saw the Man creep up on a band of wild cows that were grazing and
sleeping in the sun. But just when he was almost close enough to kill
one they all began to snort and run. And they ran right past where the
dog was hiding from the Man.

“Of course he knew what that Man wanted. So he just bounded out and
pinned a cow by the throat and sent her head over heels. And that did
make the Man laugh. My, but he was happy! So then he trusted the dog,
too, and they were the best of friends for ever and ever.” And Watch
smiled as though he were right proud of the memory.

But Nibble was horrified. “Oh!” he gasped. “The poor cow! That was an
awful thing to do. After the dogs pretended to be sorry that they had
done it when they were starving. No wonder Mother Nature wouldn’t
trust them.”

“There,” said Watch. “I knew you wouldn’t understand. He didn’t do it
for himself. He did it for his Man.”

“The Wild Things warned me,” said Nibble. “Both of them are bad, Dog
and Man.”

“Look here, Bunny,” Watch explained patiently. “They don’t either of
them do that now. They take care of the cows—because now the cows
belong to Man and have his smell about them. Just the way I won’t
touch you because you’re my Man’s rabbit and have the smell of my Man.
I don’t like to kill things—except Ouphe the Rat, and that’s because
he doesn’t belong to my Man and my Man told me to. Mother Nature
wouldn’t trust the dog, so he won’t obey her. Man did trust him, so he
just everlastingly does obey his Man.”

“I’d believe that better if the cows told it to me,” said Nibble
defiantly.

“All right! I’ll bring them up and let you talk to them as soon as
they are milked and let out of the barn.” Watch was perfectly
good-natured about it. “I’m going my rounds now, but you just tell me
if Ouphe troubles you again.” And off he trotted, waving his plumy
tail.

Nibble was terribly shocked. So any dog would do anything his Man told
him to do, no matter what Mother Nature thought about it! Now just
what did the cows think of that? Nibble wanted dreadfully to know,
because he hadn’t the least chance in the world of asking Mother
Nature or any of the wise Wild Things. How he did want good old Doctor
Muskrat!

It was getting lighter and lighter, less and less scary every minute.
Everything would be much more cheerful when the Sun peeked out over
his shoulder from down South where he was busy with the other half of
the Earth. Suddenly a voice shouted from somewhere right behind him,

                   “All Evil Spirits hark and hear
                   The warning call of Chanticleer.
                   Er-er-er-er-errh.”

It was just the Rooster calling himself by a high-toned name—the way
he always does. But Nibble had never seen one. He was so s’prised he
jumped and snubbed his nose against the cage. So he huddled up in the
middle of it again.

Then all the voices of the farm-yard began calling, “Good morning!
Good morning!” and he thought of course they were calling to the Sun.
But pretty soon the pigs began their scary grunts and then one
squealed, “Good morning. We want our breakfast.” Right off all the
rest of them took it up. The horses whinnied and the cows mooed, and
the sheep bleated, and the ducks and chickens and guinea-fowls and
turkeys all shouted, “we want our breakfasts!”

Suddenly a new voice cheeped, right beside him, “I want my breakfast,
too!” It was Chirp Sparrow!

“Oh, dear, I do wish they’d stop!” said Nibble. “Whoever are they
calling? It isn’t the Sun!”

“’Course not. It’s their Man and Tommy Peele. I can hear them coming.”

Then Nibble remembered something. “Why, Chirp,” he said, in surprise,
“Ouphe the Rat said he had eaten you! And he tried to eat me, too!”

“Ouphe is a liar,” said Chirp decidedly. “I hope he hears me say it. I
wish that dog could catch him.”

“He never will,” Nibble answered sadly. “Silvertip could, but not that
dog. He shouts every time and lets Ouphe know he’s coming. And when he
does watch at one of Ouphe’s holes he keeps beating the haystack with
his tail. That’s a tattle-tail for sure. Worse than the Mouse’s.”

“I’ll tell you what.” Chirp cocked his head on one side and looked
thoughtful. “We’ll all have to put in and help the dog catch Ouphe. If
we don’t, there’ll be a young dog on this farm and he’s sure to be a
foolish one.”

“But how can I help while I’m in this cage?”

“You’ll be out before long!” said Chirp cheerfully. And so he was,
though even Chirp didn’t know how it was going to happen.

And just then Tommy Peele came running up with some toothsome carrots
and a whole armful of clover hay—for Nibble’s breakfast, though he
hadn’t asked for it.




                              CHAPTER VI

                   THE CLEVERNESS OF CHIRP SPARROW


Watch must have kept his word about sending the cows to talk to Nibble
Rabbit. For the first thing they did when the barn door was opened was
to come trooping up to his cage. And an old White Cow put her big
starey eye right up close to it, because she’s very near-sighted, and
sniffed. Nibble’s fur blew as hard as it did the time of the terrible
storm. But her breath was all warm and sweet with clover, so he wasn’t
afraid, though she was three times as big as the dog.

The very first thing the White Cow said was: “Why don’t you eat your
breakfast?”

“I can’t. I’m all cramped up in this cage,” answered Nibble.

[Illustration: The White Cow makes friends with Nibble.]

“He’s too much afraid of being eaten,” laughed Chirp Sparrow, and he
perched right on the White Cow’s horn.

“Why, there’s no one going to hurt him,” drawled the Cow in a
surprised tone.

“There was Ouphe the Rat last night. Nibble felt pretty trembly about
him.”

“Ouphe! The disgusting thing. He came in and messed up our feed and
danced over us with his pricky feet so we couldn’t sleep. I just
called Watch,” mooed the White Cow in her nice fluty voice. It
reminded Nibble of the South Wind.

“Aren’t you afraid of Watch?” Nibble asked, for now he was truly going
to find out whether Watch was bad. “He said he’d kill you if his Man
told him to.”

“Watch? Why, Watch couldn’t kill any one. He’s too fat and sleepy and
good-natured. And no man would ever tell him to.”

“Aren’t you afraid of Man?” Nibble asked next.

“Man!” The White Cow snorted again, and most of the others snorted,
too. “Why, Tommy Peele’s all the man that ever milks me. And he’s only
a little boy. He snuggles right in beside me as though he were my own
Calf. I love Tommy Peele.”

“I don’t like Tommy Peele,” bellowed the Red Cow Nibble had taken for
a log when Silvertip chased him. “I don’t like Tommy Peele. He threw
stones at me when he drove me out of the cornfield.” She nudged the
White Cow away and sniffed at Nibble’s carrot. “I’d like that,” said
the greedy thing.

“You’d quarrel with any one,” drawled the White Cow. “You’re always
doing something you’ve no business to do.” And she moved off.

Then Chirp Sparrow had a fine idea. “Look here,” he whispered in the
Red Cow’s ear. “If you want to get even with Tommy Peele you just
catch your horn in that wire and let out his rabbit.”

“Um-m, I dunno——” mumbled the Red Cow. She didn’t like stones the way
Tommy could throw them.

“Then you can have the carrots—all the carrots. There are lots of them
under the hay,” lied Chirp.

The Red Cow lurched her head awkwardly. Her horn caught on the wire.
Then she got scared and tried to break loose again. But what she broke
loose was the whole door. She bounced off with it dangling against her
face. “Moo-oo-oo!” she bawled as she plunged about the barnyard. “Take
it off! Take it off! It hurts my no-o-se!”

But Nibble didn’t care. He took a fine long jump that stretched his
long legs. And then who ever said a rabbit couldn’t dance? He danced a
proper hornpipe and he twiddled his puffy tail and flopped his
ears—all at once—because it felt so good to be free. And Chirp Sparrow
squawked and sat down on his tail feathers because he was laughing too
hard to fly. Half at Nibble and half at the Red Cow.

Of course all the other sparrows came cheeping and chirping, and
Chanticleer the Rooster crowed, though he didn’t know what he was
crowing about. And the noise brought Watch the Dog on the run—and
after him came Tommy Peele, not nearly so fast, for he still had his
tall rubber boots on.

And Nibble took to the only hole he knew anything about—which was
Ouphe’s—but he was so startled he didn’t stop to think of that. And
the bad old rat woke up and started to come out of that very hole to
see what all this noise was about.

Then wasn’t Nibble in a nice fix? Just wasn’t he?

In front of him Watch was sniffing and digging at the hay. Behind him
Ouphe was murmuring in his sticky, trickly voice: “Come right in,
little Friend Rabbit. Come right in.”

Just then Watch barked to Tommy Peele: “Here he is. I’ve got him.” And
Tommy said in a very severe voice: “Go ’way, Watch. Don’t you hurt my
bunny.”

“There,” barked Watch, “he says you’re still his bunny, even if you
are wild again. Come along!” But Nibble didn’t move.

“Go away!” said Tommy again. “Go on, Watch; he’ll never come out until
you do.”

But Watch didn’t move. He could hear Ouphe saying in a horrid voice:
“Come in here, or I’ll take you by the tail and pull you in.” And he
held his very breath—and his wagger with it!

Of course Ouphe thought he had gone away. And he wasn’t very scared of
Tommy Peele. So he caught hold of Nibble’s tail. And then Nibble was
so frightened he began to squeal and pull. And Ouphe held back.

“Come along, Nibble, come quick,” pleaded Chirp Sparrow. He meant that
the dog was safer than the rat. But Ouphe thought he meant that the
dog was gone. So he let Nibble pull him to the very edge of the hole.

“Aurgh!” sang Watch, very joyfully indeed. For he never touched Nibble
at all, but nipped Ouphe the Rat right through the heart with those
very long teeth he shows when he laughs.

Nibble sat right down there in the sunlight until he got his breath,
and nobody tried to catch him.

Watch couldn’t. He had his mouth all full of Ouphe. And he was walking
around on the tips of his toes, looking so vain that all the sparrows
laughed at him. Even Tommy Peele joined in. But Watch didn’t care a
bit. He just smiled as wide as he could let his mouth go and not lose
Ouphe out of it.

And Nibble slipped over and ate his carrot. How good it tasted, now he
was free!




                             CHAPTER VII

                     HOW A BUNNY COULD HELP A BOY


Now don’t you forget that it was the greedy Red Cow who let Nibble out
of his cage. She wanted his carrot so much that she pulled the wire
door right off with her horn. And then she got scared and careered way
down the Snowy Pasture with that door banging against her nose,
getting madder and madder and madder.

Well, she finally scratched it off on to a prickly thorn bush that
held up its arms to help her. And then she came back to the barnyard
as fast as she could run. For she’d lost her temper entirely. And you
know what happens when things do that. It happened to the Storm and to
Mrs. Hooter, and to Silvertip the Fox, and to Chatter Squirrel, and
Slyfoot the Mink, and Nature only knows how many more. It’s always
something unpleasant.

[Illustration: Just then Watch barked to Tommy Peele, “Here he is. I’ve
got him.”]

But she hadn’t forgotten that carrot, because she was so terribly
greedy. She galloped up and sclooped her tongue around beneath the
pile of hay in Nibble’s cage. No, there weren’t any more carrots at
all. So she rolled her eyes around and saw Nibble just finishing up
the sweet inside of it. “Moo-oo-oo!” she roared. And it didn’t sound a
bit like the White Cow’s fluty voice. Moo! She tried to catch Nibble
on her sharp horns or trample him with her big hard toes. But he was
too quick. He just made two jumps and ran under the haystack.

Then she shook her horns at Chirp Sparrow, who was perched on a fence
post. “You lied!” she roared. “You said there were lots of carrots
here!” But Chirp just squawked rudely and flew into a tree, and she
only banged her sore nose on the fence wire.

So the next one she took after was Tommy Peele, who hadn’t done
anything to her at all. And you remember Tommy had on his tall rubber
boots, so he couldn’t run very fast. Not fast enough to run away from
the Red Cow.

And suddenly Nibble found he was dreadfully afraid of what might
happen to Tommy Peele. Besides, it was all his own fault—excepting
that Chirp really oughtn’t to have lied to her. So he bounced out
under her very nose, calling: “I took the carrot! I took the carrot!”

But the Red Cow wanted someone she could catch and hurt—because she
had lost her temper. She wanted Tommy Peele. Only she never got him.

Because right then things did begin to happen. Watch dropped that rat
and clamped his teeth right on her sore nose. “There!” he growled in
his throat. “I’ll teach you to hurt my little boy!”

“I’ll hurt you!” bawled the Red Cow, trying to stamp in his ribs with
her big horny feet.

“You will?” It was the White Cow’s voice—but it wasn’t fluty now. She
was galloping, tail up and head down. “Whang!” she hit the Red Cow’s
ribs. “Blam!” she hit her so hard in the shoulder that Watch lost his
hold. And the Red Cow was all through hurting any one. She turned and
ran, limping and licking her sore nose.

Maybe you think Nibble Rabbit wasn’t puzzled when he saw the Red Cow
run bawling down the pasture with a limp that would keep her feeding
in circles for a week. He had thought of course she was going to fight
with Watch the Dog, and instead she had turned on Tommy Peele. Now
that was wrong, so Watch had a perfect right to stop her. But, when
the White Cow came charging up, Nibble never in the world expected to
see her help Watch give the Bed Cow a terrible trouncing.

And here was Watch, all smiles and waggly tail, saying, “Much obliged,
I’m sure, Mother Snowflake. I was finding that heifer quite a
mouthful.”

And the White Cow was answering, “Oh, I’ve been waiting quite a while
to drive a bit of sense into the wild little thing.” And she settled
down to switching her tail and chewing her cud as calmly as ever.

But that made Nibble indignant. “She’s not a Wild Thing,” he said.
“Wild Things have better manners than any of you or they’d be fighting
all the time. I’m a Wild Thing myself, so I know.”

“Oh, it’s the Bunny,” drawled the White Cow, dragging her words the
way she drags her toes, because she thinks as slowly as she walks.
“Well, I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings. You’re perfectly right.
Manners are to keep folks from fighting—to make them think before they
pick a quarrel. That Red Cow just wouldn’t think until we made her.
Now she’ll learn.”

“’Nother thing,” Nibble insisted, “we don’t help any one against our
own kind.”

“That sort of talk is less use than a trampled cornstalk,” Mother
Snowflake lowed sensibly. “All the kind we have here is Tommy Peele.
His people take care of us, so we take care of him.”

“Yes,” Watch put in; “you saw how he trusted us.” And he waved his
tail quite grandly.

“But he didn’t say ‘Thank you,’” Nibble looked about him in surprise,
for Tommy had disappeared.

“He doesn’t keep it in his pocket, but he won’t forget it,” promised
the Cow. And she wet her nostrils with her slaty tongue to sniff what
it was going to be.

“He doesn’t talk our talk,” Watch explained, “but he does know the
sign language of tails pretty well.”

“I told you,” she mooed triumphantly. For there came Tommy with his
cap full of meal. He poured a big pile before her and a little one
close to Nibble. But he gave Watch a great big hug.

“That little ‘thank you’ is for you,” smiled Watch over Tommy Peele’s
shoulder. “Why, Bunny, do you think we didn’t see you trying to help
us with the Red Cow?”

Nibble certainly had tried his best, for deep down inside him he began
to know why the tame beasts all loved Tommy.

Still he hesitated. “I won’t come back to my cage,” he warned; “I’m
wild, you know.”

“That’s all right,” Watch promised, “but wild or tame, you’re Tommy
Peele’s, and some day you’ll be glad to know it. So go ahead and
accept that ‘thank you’ like a sensible beast or you’ll be hurting
Tommy’s feelings.”

Nibble really wanted to. My, but it smelled good! And the White Cow
was heaving big sighs of happiness over her pile. But he didn’t want
to be caught again, so he was very, very careful. Lip-it, lip-it, he
tiptoed over and sniffed. Then he just couldn’t resist it. It WAS
good! Quite as good as it smelled! Pretty soon he felt like sighing,
too, because his little skin was tight.

And Tommy Peele never tried to catch him at all. Because now he knew
what it felt like to be chased. He only took off his red mitten and
twiddled his pinky fingers.

Nibble knew that those fingers were nice and gentle when they petted
him, and that was all Tommy wanted to do. But he just couldn’t quite
dare to let him. So he cleaned the last crumb off his whiskers with
the little fur brushes he wears on his paws and said, “That was mighty
nice, but I’m a Wild Thing still, and I’m going back to the woods,
where I belong. Good-bye, Mr. Watch. Good-bye, Mother Snowflake” [for
that’s what Watch had called the White Cow].

“Good-bye,” barked Watch. “You’ll find us here any time you want us.”

Mother Snowflake couldn’t stop to talk. She was too busy.

So Nibble signalled a very polite “Good-bye” to Tommy Peele with his
little tufty tail, though it was still rather stiff where Ouphe the
Rat had bitten it. But Tommy didn’t understand Nibble—not yet. He only
knew the talk of the tame beasts. So he felt quite sad when he saw the
Bunny go skipping, lipity, lipity, down the long lane.




                             CHAPTER VIII

                  HOW THE FUNNY BUNNY SMELLED A JOKE


Lipity, lipity, lipity, Nibble Rabbit hopped down the long lane from
Tommy Peele’s red barn. He was in a dreadful hurry to get home to the
Woods and Fields.

Out in the Snowy Pasture the wind blew cold. The Red Cow stood with
her back to it, looking very sad and thoughtful, but she spoke to
Nibble politely, for she’d found her temper again. Pretty soon he was
passing the cornstalk tents in the Broad Field, but one of them
smelled so foxy that he didn’t wait there for Silvertip to come back.
Now he was in the Clover Patch. He stole past the oak that blew down
in the Terrible Storm, and around the Brush Pile. Then he went
straight for his own old hole.

How he had dreamed of it when Tommy had him in that cage! No one had
been there since the Terrible Storm, for the doorway was drifted shut.
So in he popped. And then he almost popped right out again, for there
was someone in it.

Yes, someone was in his very own home, and he couldn’t tell who. But
it was someone with a nice clovery breath, like White Cow’s, so Nibble
thought he couldn’t be dangerous. “Here!” he called. “Whoever you are,
wake up! This hole is mine!”

But Someone never answered.

He felt Someone’s warm fur, listened to Someone’s breathing. He
touched Someone’s fat side with his paw. Then he tried to shake
Someone by the scruff of his neck, but Someone was much too big for
him. And Someone wouldn’t wake.

Nibble cocked his head on one side and thought about it. Then he tried
a few experiments. At last he said: “Very well. There’s plenty of room
for both of us in here. I don’t know but we’ll both be more
comfortable. But you just remember when you do wake up that this hole
is really mine.” Someone just slept on. But Nibble didn’t care, for he
made a perfectly lovely foot-warmer.

The next morning Nibble brushed the sleep out of his eyes with his
furry paws and nudged Someone. “Come along,” he urged. “We’ll hunt
some breakfast.” For it was the dark of the moon when rabbits feed at
early dawn and dusk. They prefer moonlight at other times. “I’ll get
him out,” he thought, “and have a look at him.”

Someone only made a little sucking noise as though he were eating
something perfectly delicious in his dream, and went on sleeping.

“You’re a funny beast,” said Nibble, right out loud. “I’m going to ask
Doctor Muskrat about you.” Someone slept right on. So off Nibble set
for the pond among the cattails. And all the breakfast he found along
the way was some coarse grass, very dry and wind-whipped, and the dry
brown seed heads of yarrow. And that wasn’t much after the wonderful
breakfast Tommy had given him.

Everything was all changed. The cattails were drifted waist deep in
snow, and the pond was all ice, so he could walk right up to Doctor
Muskrat’s house in the middle of it. He thumped No answer. He thumped
again, and then he danced as hard as he could on top of it. He was
having a very busy time, all by himself, when he heard Doctor
Muskrat’s gruff voice calling, “Who’s that? What do you think you’re
trying to do, anyway?”

Nibble flashed about and saw the doctor’s tousled head poking from a
hole among the cattails. “Good morning,” he said politely, “I was just
looking for your front door.”

“Well, you’ll find it here, over this warm spring—the one spot in the
pond that doesn’t freeze shut, so I always have a place to come for a
breath of fresh air.” The old doctor was puffing as he made his way
through the crusty hillocks between the bulrush stems. “Duck me, but
it’s Nibble! Dear, dear! What did you want? You aren’t ill?” And he
was all ready to dive back after one of his famous roots.

“No, indeed, but you know everything,” Nibble began confidently.
“Won’t you please tell me who’s asleep in my home hole and won’t wake
up?” And he told all about it.

“Hm!” Doctor Muskrat wriggled his nose thoughtfully, much as any nice
old gentleman will when his spectacles are pulled too far down on it.
“It sounds to me—it most certainly sounds to me like that fat old
bluffer, Snoof Woodchuck.”

Nibble’s ears pricked. “Does he bite?” he asked anxiously.

“Oh, no,” Doctor Muskrat reassured him. “He’s a harmless old crank,
and a strict vegetarian, though the garter snakes say he’s a snappish
fellow before he completely wakes up in the spring. Who wouldn’t be,
with their perpetual whispering and squirming? He lets it out that
he’s a kind of hermit, and sits meditating in his hole, with his eye
on the weather, but I’ve always suspected he was snoozing. On the day
after the first February moon casts her shadow, he pretends to come
out and deliver his opinion. Though I never knew any one who really
saw him.”

Even People know the story. They call it Groundhog Day. And
“Groundhog” is just a rude nickname for the woodchuck. Though how any
one but the woodsfolk came to hear about it is a mystery.

“I’ll bet you a sassafras root,” went on the doctor contemptuously,
“that lazy old skeezicks never wakes up a day before Tad Coon.”

“But if everybody thinks he does,” Nibble objected, “there must be
something behind it.”

“There is,” Doctor Muskrat agreed. “There’s a lot of talk, and he’s
the one who starts it, too. It would make you sick to hear him
straddling around after the frost is out of the ground saying ‘I told
you so. I told you it would be bad weather, or good weather,’
whichever it has happened to be. But I never saw any one who had heard
him say it.”

[Illustration: The old doctor was puffing as he made his way through the
bulrush stems.]

“Well,” Nibble insisted, “why doesn’t someone keep watch and tell on
him?”

Doctor Muskrat shook his head. “If you didn’t keep watch so that
everyone would know they’d go right on believing him. And if you did
that, and he did wake up, the joke would be on you. And that’s never
any fun.”

Well, that certainly kept Nibble quiet for a little while. He was
thinking. Pretty soon his nose began to wrinkle and his eyes hid like
little pinpoints, deep in his fur. He was trying so hard not to laugh.
“Doctor Muskrat,” said he, “how soon is that February moon?”

Doctor Muskrat waddled up the bank and took a nip of willow stem.
“Grubs and clam shells!” he exclaimed in surprise. “Sap’s stirring.
Why, it’s only the hatching of an egg away. [That’s two weeks as the
woodsfolk count time.] Nibble,” he added curiously, “I believe you’re
smelling something.”

“I am,” Nibble chuckled. “I’m smelling a wonderful joke. Half of it
will be on that old snoozer in my hole and the other half will
be—who’ll the other half be on?”

“There aren’t many folks out,” answered the doctor, telling them off
on his paw. “There’s Chewee the Chickadee, Chaik the Jay, and Gimlet
the Woodpecker—you couldn’t possibly fool him —and the fieldmice. The
fieldmice! They do nothing but tattle and gossip and they’ll believe
anything!”

And Nibble was delighted. “Well, the other half of this joke will be
on the fieldmice. Doctor Muskrat, did you ever hear that the fur of a
woodchuck woven into a mouse’s nest is a sure charm against an owl’s
catching them? But it’s got to be plucked the day after the first
February moon.”

Doctor Muskrat thought a minute, and then he laughed. He laughed so
hard he slapped his tail on the ice, because he saw what Nibble Rabbit
was thinking about.




                              CHAPTER IX

              THE GREAT WOODCHUCK—FUR CHARM AGAINST OWLS


Nibble Rabbit and Doctor Muskrat sat among the bulrushes on the Frozen
Pond and laughed and chuckled over the joke they were planning on the
old woodchuck in Nibble’s hole. He had everybody believing that he
came out of his hole on the day we call Groundhog Day (though the
woodsfolk never use a rude nickname like that even for a woodchuck)
and predicted the weather. That is, everybody believed it except
Nibble Rabbit and Doctor Muskrat.

This was their plan. They would get every fieldmouse in the woods and
fields looking for the woodchuck on that particular day. Then if he
did wake up the joke would be on the fieldmice. And if he didn’t—well,
you just listen!

Nibble hopped all about, from the Frozen Pond to the little cornstalk
tents in the Broad Field, looking for field-mice. And every time he
found one he’d say, “What’s this story that’s going around? I hear
that woodchuck fur plucked the day after the first February moon is a
sure charm against owls. Just the littlest tuft woven into a nest will
keep the young mice from being caught. Is there any truth in it?”

The mouse wouldn’t let on that any one knew more about mouse secrets
than he did, so he’d say “Oh, that used to be an old mouse custom, but
of late years it’s been hard to find a woodchuck.” And then he’d
scuttle off to the holes and tunnels where the mice live and fuss and
gossip and chatter about it.

Then they all ended up at the great hollow stump, where
Great-grandfather Mouse has lived for so very many years that his ears
are all crinkled, and set that agog. And poor old Great-grandfather
Mouse got so bewildered that he dragged himself down to the Frozen
Pond to talk with Doctor Muskrat. Which was exactly what Doctor
Muskrat had been hoping for.

The Doctor was very polite and pleased to see him. “Certainly,” he
said, “I’ve heard the story. Fact is, I might have heard it from you
yourself when we were both very young. But, dear, dear, my memory
isn’t very good any more. Only I’m perfectly sure it was the day after
the first February moon!” He didn’t want any mistake about that.

“Yes, yes,” agreed Great-grandfather Mouse, “I remember. I remember it
all, now you call it to mind. But where could I find a woodchuck?”

“Well, seeing we’re such old friends,” whispered Doctor Muskrat, “I’ll
let you know. But it’s a secret. He’s down in Nibble Rabbit’s hole. I
expect that sly young bunny means to be married in the spring, and
won’t his hole be nicely lined with woodchuck fur, just won’t it?”

“Great grass seeds!” exploded Great-grandfather Mouse. “It’s a mouse
charm. No rabbit has anything to do with it.” So he stumped off home,
dragging his fat old tail and wagging his crinkled ears, and in half
an hour more people knew about Doctor Muskrat’s secret than if Chatter
Squirrel had shouted it from the treetops. They knew where the
woodchuck was and they meant to get some fur off him, too.

And Nibble Rabbit was all but turning somersaults on his little paddy
feet out behind the bulrushes because he was so amused over it.

The great day came at last—Groundhog Day—the day when the woodchuck
ought to come out to foretell the weather for spring. And Nibble
Rabbit and Doctor Muskrat weren’t the only ones who were watching for
him.

For all the snow around the mouth of Nibble’s hole was tunnelled by
the mice, and they were scuffling and squeaking beneath it; so it’s a
wonderful thing Silvertip the Fox didn’t hear them. And Nibble thought
what a wonderful joke it would be if that woodchuck did come walking
out of the hole. So he shook him and jounced him and pulled his round,
mousy ears and his long spiky whiskers. But, no! That woodchuck just
wouldn’t wake up. So finally Nibble gave it up and crawled out of
doors. And there at the mouth of the hole he met old Great-grandfather
Fieldmouse, who was too fat and clumsy for any tunnel.

“Good morning,” said Nibble. “I see you’ve come to greet my friend Mr.
Woodchuck when he comes out to foretell the weather.”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” said Great-grandfather
Fieldmouse very severely. “This is the day we come for our regular
charm of woodchuck fur to keep our young safe from owls.” He spoke as
solemnly as though he had done it every year of his life. “It’s
strictly a mouse charm,” he went on, “and no rabbit is going to keep
us from it!” He said that because Doctor Muskrat had given him the
idea that Nibble meant to keep it all for himself. And Doctor Muskrat
gave him that idea because he didn’t want Great-grandfather Mouse to
suspect that Nibble had invented the whole story about the charm.
Doctor Muskrat knew they’d never bother about coming after the
woodchuck fur unless they thought that someone else wanted it as much
as they did.

“Very well,” Nibble answered meekly; “but please leave a little for
me.”

“We’ll see if there’s enough to go round,” replied the mouse. And with
that he laid back his ears—he’s so old that they’re all crinkled—and
marched down into Nibble’s own hole. And out he came with a mouthful
of fur. And every fieldmouse from all the woods and fields solemnly
marched in and did the very same thing as if they’d done it every year
of their lives, too.

And maybe you think Nibble Rabbit and Doctor Muskrat didn’t laugh
until their sides were fit to split—maybe you think they didn’t.
Because they knew they were going to be able to prove to every one of
the woodsfolk just where Mr. Woodchuck was and what he was doing on
the next day after the first February moon.

After the last mouse had left his hole, Nibble went in to see what
they had done. He came out again in a hurry. “Whew!” he said to Doctor
Muskrat. “I’ll have to sleep in the Pickery Things to-night. It’s all
mousy in there. But they’ve plucked that sleepy old woodchuck as bare
as an egg.”

And Doctor Muskrat chuckled. “Just you wait until he wakes up in the
spring!”

That wasn’t till a long way after St. Patrick’s Day, when the little
gray pussies hung on all the willows. And he took three whole days to
wake up in. For the first day he just grunted and groaned and made the
noise that the woodsfolk take his name from. “Snoof, snoof!” he’d go
as though he were trying to sneeze, but was too lazy to do it. And the
minute he did that, Nibble hurried down to Doctor Muskrat in the marsh
and told him about it.

“Very good,” said Doctor Muskrat. “Tell me how he behaves to-morrow.”

On the second day Snoof Woodchuck had turned over in the hole with his
feet in the air and was acting as a dog does when he has a dream.
Nibble told Doctor Muskrat.

“Very well,” said the Doctor. “He’ll stand on them to-morrow, and
we’ll all be there to greet him.” Then he waddled off to the hollow
stump where Great-grandfather Fieldmouse lives. And Great-grandfather
Fieldmouse poked his head out.

“Well, well?” he demanded in his crotchety voice, because he’s very
old— so old that his ears are all crinkled. “What do you want now?”

“I just wanted to let you know that to-morrow morning Snoof Woodchuck
will take the air an hour after sun-up,” said Doctor Muskrat very
politely.

“Well, what’s that got to do with me?” demanded Great-grandfather
Fieldmouse.

“I let you know because we’re such old friends,” said Doctor Muskrat.
“Surely you remember that as long as the mice kept up the good old
custom of gathering to thank the woodchuck, the woodchuck stayed here
and you always had your charm.”

“I suppose so, I suppose so,” grunted Great-grandfather Fieldmouse.

So on the third day, when Snoof Woodchuck climbed out into the air,
all the fieldmice were assembled. He was very much complimented. He
bowed pompously, this way and that—and oh, how funny he looked, as
though the moths had been at him! “Hmm, hmm!” he began importantly.
“As I told you when I predicted the weather on the next day after the
first February moon——”

But he never got any further. For the mice simply squealed in
surprise, “Why, that was the day we came for our charms of woodchuck
fur. You were fast asleep!”

“You old bluffer,” jeered Doctor Muskrat, “we caught you napping this
time!”

“Look at yourself!” squealed Nibble Rabbit, standing on his tallest
toes to hop about. “See if you’re not mouse-eaten! You’re as naked as
you were born—yah! I’m ashamed to look at you!” And the mice all
echoed him.

And that woodchuck scuttled back into the very bottom of the hole and
hid there until midnight. And then he went so far away that no one
ever saw him again or even heard of him.




                              CHAPTER X

               WHAT DOCTOR MUSKRAT THOUGHT ABOUT TRAPS


Quite a long while ago I promised to tell what Tommy Peele was doing
in the Broad Field when he let Nibble Rabbit’s storm party out of the
little cornstalk tent. Well, to begin with, he was looking for the
tracks of the woodsfolk. But as long as the snow lay deep on the
ground he didn’t find many.

For Doctor Muskrat and the fieldmice and Nibble Rabbit were about the
only ones who stayed there. Doctor Muskrat was too clever to leave
tracks where any one would see them. And the fieldmice had their
tunnels far below the crust, so you never saw anything of them. And
you’d have to creep around among the Pickery Things before you’d see
many signs of Nibble Rabbit.

But the birds called very often to get a drink from the warm spring
hidden among the bulrushes that was Doctor Muskrat’s front door. It
was Chewee the Chickadee who brought news of the quail. “They have to
go a long way in the deep woods every day to find enough seeds for so
large a flock,” he said. “And they told me that I must leave every
last weed head that pricked up above the snow in their thicket for
Nibble Rabbit.”

Now that was very nice of the quail because there were very few seeds
left, and Nibble was eating the dried grasses that the Pickery Things
kept from him and the delicate bark from the sunny side of the
willows.

[Illustration: Snoof Woodchuck comes out of his hole.]

Chaik, the Jay, perked his crest thoughtfully. “It must be horrid to
live in big flocks like that where you can never find a full crop for
everyone at once. The partridge are perching in some evergreens. They
say it’s safer than sleeping in the snow where they might be frozen in
again. Only they can’t find anything to eat but birch and poplar buds,
and they’re awfully hungry. But not so hungry as Hooter the Owl and
his wife. I wonder why they flew away right in the middle of the
terrible storm.”

“Silvertip the Fox left then, too,” said Gimlet the Woodpecker, who
had been working in the orchard back of Tommy Peele’s barn. “There
must be something in that.”

“There is,” said Nibble. “I was the game Mrs. Hooter chased into the
cornstalk tent, but Silvertip was the one who came out of it. He
mussed their feathers and they tweaked his ears, and now they’re
afraid to meet each other!”

Chaik laughed. “The owls are still quarrelling,” he told Nibble.

“Well, Silvertip has learned to get into the chicken-coop,” Gimlet
reported, “and Chirp Sparrow says that’s climbing into a peck of
trouble.”

“Who cares?” Nibble rejoiced. “Now that Slyfoot’s gone to find a
better hunting ground we have no one to look out for.”

But Doctor Muskrat spoke up very thoughtfully. “Yes, Nibble. Sooner or
later we’ll have to look out for Man.”

“Shucks!” sniffed Nibble, carelessly flopping his ears. “No Man ever
comes here unless it’s Tommy Peele. And he’s such a little one, who’s
afraid of him?”

“I am.” And Doctor Muskrat stroked his whiskers with his paw. “You
can’t judge the size of his jaw by the size of his trail, nor know how
far he’ll reach out to bite you!”

But Nibble merely twiddled his tail to show how little he cared for a
whole flock of Tommy Peeles. While Tommy had him in a cage up by the
barn Tommy had been good to him. And none of the tame beasts were
afraid of Tommy Peele. “He hasn’t any teeth to speak of,” Nibble
protested, “and he hasn’t any claws. He couldn’t hurt any one. I’ve
been right in his very paws, so I know.”

“Yes, you have,” agreed Doctor Muskrat. “And how did you get there?
Didn’t he reach out and catch you when he was the whole length of the
pasture away?”

And this time Nibble didn’t feel like twiddling his tail. It was
perfectly true. He knew that somehow Tommy had been the one who made
that dreadful wire snatch him into the air. And he hadn’t quite
forgotten how it all but squeezed the life right out of him when he
swung there. It hadn’t felt in the least like the soft touch of
Tommy’s hand. So he asked with a little shiver, “What are those jaws
like, Doctor Muskrat?”

“They’re harder than bone, and colder than stone. They never miss, and
they never let go,” said the wise old Muskrat very earnestly. And
that’s the truth about a muskrat trap. It’s just a pair of steel jaws,
harder than bone and colder than stone, exactly as he said. And
they’re worked by a terrible spring. They never miss because the
spring won’t snap unless a beast steps right between them. And they
won’t let go again until the Man opens the spring again. No beast can
ever learn that. Because no beast has ever imagined that they weren’t
a part of the Man.

“And a Man can have a whole pack of those jaws,” the old doctor went
on. “They’ll hide out in the leaves where you can’t see or hear them;
sometimes you just sniff the faintest chilly smell on them. They’re
worse than a whole pack of Silvertips because you can see and hear and
SMELL him.”

“How awful!” breathed Nibble. “It isn’t fair!”

“Well, Mother Nature wasn’t fair to Man in the First-Off Beginning,”
argued the wise old beast. “The cows complained and got their horns,
and so did a lot of others, but Man wouldn’t complain. It’s a law that
when a beast invents anything for himself he has a right to use it. So
you can’t blame Man for using anything.”

“Well,” said Nibble thankfully, “I’m glad Tommy Peele doesn’t use
those jaws.”

But up behind the barn Tommy Peele had his first pair of the awful
things. He wouldn’t have dreamed of using them on the chickens or
Watch the Dog, or even on Nibble Rabbit, because they were friends of
his. But he didn’t think any more of using them on a muskrat, that he
didn’t know, than the muskrat would have thought of using his sharp
teeth on Tommy Peele. And he wanted the muskrat’s skin. Which was
perfectly natural because every man has had to use some other
creature’s fur since the First-Off Beginning of things—until he got to
be friends with them.




                              CHAPTER XI

                THE SINGULAR MISHAP OF DOCTOR MUSKRAT


Don’t you ever believe that a small boy who grows up in the open air
like Tommy Peele doesn’t know just as much about the ways of the wild
things as any of the wild things know about the ways of men. Only he
doesn’t know he knows it. Because he doesn’t have to hunt for every
meal as he used to in the First-Off Beginning. And the only way you
find out what you really do know, deep down inside you, is to use it.
All the same, the very day Tommy Peele got out his trap was the day
the muskrats began their spring running. He hadn’t seen their
footprints, even yet, but that something deep down inside him told him
it was time to expect them.

That trap wasn’t a very good one. He got it from Louis Thomson, who
had a lot that he set out all through other people’s woods where he
thought the other people wouldn’t catch him, because he wasn’t quite
satisfied to hunt just on his own. And he knew this particular trap
was slow because it was all rusty, and it hadn’t a good spring. But he
made Tommy give him a two-bladed knife and his big glass shooter and
twenty cents to boot. For the Red Cow wasn’t the only one who was
greedy.

But Tommy oiled it and cleaned it and got it to work. And he specially
showed it to Watch the Dog and told him to be very careful not to
sniff around and get his nose in it. And Watch spread himself out
beside Tommy while Tommy worked. Watch snoozed contentedly in the sun
and flopped his tail whenever Tommy talked to him. For the weather was
beginning to grow warmer. The thaw that the poor partridge had wanted
so badly had come.

Down by the pond the ice was getting so soft that Nibble didn’t dare
thump on it to call Doctor Muskrat. And he wanted to call him a great
deal of the time. For he knew the wise old doctor was very careful
about making tracks near his warm spring. But all sorts of careless
young muskrats were wandering up and down the stream. They said it was
mating time, and they were trying to find some lady muskrat who would
be foolish enough to start housekeeping then. They ran in and out
among the willows, gnawing and digging and making the plainest sort of
trail, and then they would flop with their muddy feet right into the
drinking hole.

I can tell you it made Nibble angry enough. He didn’t fancy drinking
after them, but they didn’t pay any attention to him. And Chaik the
Jay got into such a rage that he forgot he should have kept quiet
there. He perched on the tallest bulrush and cursed and squalled at
them. But when Doctor Muskrat heard the rumpus and lifted his head up
through the ice, with his long teeth showing between his gray
whiskers, they scuttled off as though Silvertip himself were after
them.

And then the old doctor would fume. “The Mink take them and their
love-making, the silly young things! What’s the sense of disturbing
the whole marsh just because they want everyone to know they’re old
enough to dig a nursery? Eh?” He forgot that he’d done the very same
thing in his own first spring.

But Nibble thought they were having a mighty good time over it all.
Only he wished they wouldn’t leave quite so many tracks for Tommy
Peele to find.

And the very next day there came Tommy, splashing through the big
puddles in his tall rubber boots, sloshing through the last of the
snowdrifts, and whistling a lively tune. And Nibble pricked up his
ears to listen. Because he thought that maybe Tommy was on a spring
wandering of his own, and this was his mating song. For he never
dreamed that whole generations of bunnies and muskrats and piping
birds would grow old and die before Tommy even thought of such a
thing.

Tommy had on his blue sweater, but he’d left his red mittens hanging
back of the stove because he’d got them all wet snowballing. And Watch
was dancing along in front of him singing “Aourgh! aorugh!” which is
neither a mating song nor a proper hunting song. It was like Tommy’s
whistle—it showed that he was perfectly happy.

But Nibble wasn’t. He was awfully uncomfortable. For all the
footprints of those foolish young beasts led straight to the warm
spring, which was still the only open water, though the ice was soft
and melting all over the pond. And you remember this was the wise old
doctor’s front door.

Of course Tommy followed them right there. And Nibble crouched into a
clump of bulrushes close behind him—close enough to hear him working
over something; close enough to hear Watch saying in an excited tone,
“It’s all right! I can smell ’em—lots of ’em!”

Nibble was so worried he nearly squirmed. He wanted to get out to the
little round house in the middle of the pond and warn Doctor Muskrat.
The minute Tommy’s back was turned he started to creep over the
crumbly ice toward it. But Watch’s back wasn’t turned. He bounced out
after Nibble. And he bounced right through the ice. And the minute
Doctor Muskrat heard that splashing and thrashing right in his front
pond, out he popped. “Clang!” That ugly trap had him by the paw!

“Oh-h-h! Oow-w-w!” screamed the poor old doctor. But he didn’t lose
his head entirely. “Quick, Nibble,” he begged, “bite off my toes
before that dog gets here! I can’t reach them.” His own poor old teeth
were chattering with fear and pain.

And that’s exactly what Nibble was trying to do when Watch floundered
out of the water. “Aourgh! I’ve got you!” he barked joyfully. Then he
stopped short and wagged his tail in the friendliest way. “Why, you’re
Tommy’s rabbit!” he said. And he tried to explain to Tommy Peele.

But Tommy wouldn’t listen. He couldn’t think of anything but that poor
old beast, squealing over his hurt paw. It made Tommy’s own throat
hurt to hear him. He wanted to help, but the doctor couldn’t
understand. He just gnashed his teeth and snapped at Tommy. Then Tommy
managed to touch the spring of the trap with his toe. He stepped, and
it yawned open—just for an instant. Away went Doctor Muskrat.

But Nibble wasn’t looking. He had leaped back into his hiding place in
the reeds and closed his eyes.

He wished he could close his long ears as well. He expected to hear
his good old friend squeal when Tommy killed him. But all he heard was
a splash.

Then Watch the Dog said, “I told you you’d be glad you were Tommy
Peele’s rabbit!” He was standing close beside Nibble and he was
looking over his shoulder to give an affectionate wag of his tail
toward Tommy Peele. Nibble looked, too. And there was Tommy
unfastening his trap from where he had tied it to a reed clump so it
couldn’t be dragged away. But there was no sign of any muskrat.

“He’s gone,” Watch explained. “Tommy let him go. I expect that was
because he was a friend of yours.” Of course there was still too much
wolf in Watch for him to understand that Tommy had just been sorry for
hunting the doctor. But Watch was sure anything that small boy did was
wonderful, and reflected forever to his credit.

“But why did he bite him if he didn’t mean to eat him?” Nibble asked
in a trembly voice. That was something he never did understand. And
Watch didn’t try to. He was cocking his ears to see what next Tommy
was going to do.

Tommy yanked the trap loose from the reed clump. And he wasn’t proud
of owning it any more. He hated it— quite as much as Nibble or even
Doctor Muskrat did. He swung it about his head and threw it splash
into the hole Watch had made when he fell through the ice chasing
Nibble.

Then he looked at a hole the doctor’s long teeth had slashed in his
tall rubber boot. “I don’t care,” he said defiantly. “I don’t care a
bit! I hurt him awfully. He had a perfect right to hurt me if he
wanted to.”

The teeth hadn’t gone in deep enough really to bite Tommy’s toe, but
of course neither Nibble nor Doctor Muskrat ever guessed that. Their
hides belong to them and they couldn’t ever imagine that his tall
rubber boots weren’t any more a part of Tommy than those steel jaws of
his traps were. Watch could, because he sometimes wore a collar, and
on very cold nights Tommy covered him up with a blanket, but he never
thought of explaining it.

[Illustration: “Clang!” That ugly trap had Dr. Muskrat by the paw.]

Then Tommy marched all the way up to the house and got his cap full of
the same delicious meal he had given Nibble and the White Cow the day
the Red Cow chased him. It was “Thank you” to them for helping him get
away from her. He set out two little piles. Then he called: “Here
Bunny, Bunny, Bunny!” And that showed Nibble that one of those piles
was for him. So Watch was right. It was nice to be Tommy’s rabbit.

And Watch explained: “The other is for your friend the Muskrat. Don’t
you eat it.”

As though Nibble would!




                             CHAPTER XII

                TOMMY PEELE’S FRIENDS STAND UP FOR HIM


Of course Nibble Rabbit wouldn’t eat the pile of meal Tommy Peele left
for Doctor Muskrat.

But he thought he was going to have a terrible time to keep all those
foolish young muskrats, who were scuttling round in the marsh trying
to start their spring love affairs, from doing it. He forgot that
everything around the place where Tommy had set it still smelled of
the little boy and his dog. So not another beast dared come near it.

Chaik the Jay and Chewee the Chickadee stole a few beakfuls, but
Nibble knew Doctor Muskrat wouldn’t mind that. And he wanted company.
So he told them all about how Tommy had caught the doctor and let him
go again. And how Tommy had thrown away the trap.

Chaik raised and lowered his crest, just as we sometimes do our
eyebrows, when we’re puzzled about anything. “He was lucky,” Chaik
said. “I’ve seen beasts suffer in a trap for whole days before they
died. And I never heard of any before that got out of one alive. I
believe that human is queer. Sometimes I think he’s trying to think
the way we woods folk do.”

“I know it,” chimed in Chewee. “When it was so terribly cold I was
having an awful time. The ice had frozen over the cones so I couldn’t
even pick a living among the pine trees. And do you know what he did?
He tied a big lump of fat pork away out on the end of a springy
branch, so that fat house cat couldn’t reach it. Just for me! Wasn’t
that clever” And he began hopping about in the excited way he has
whenever he gets to talking.

“Well, he most certainly is trying to make friends with us,” Nibble
observed. “Only catching us in traps isn’t a very comfortable way of
doing it. You fellows will have to help me convince Doctor Muskrat.”

Help! He needed it. It was two whole days before the doctor poked his
head out of the hole where Watch had smashed the crumbly ice. The wise
old beast wasn’t using his front door any more.

“Come on,” called Nibble cheerfully. “See what Tommy Peele left you to
say he was sorry he bit you.”

“Not I,” growled the doctor. “I’ve had enough of his jaws.” He spread
out his paddle paw. The good roots he stores in his medicine chest had
nearly healed it, but his little toe was gone. “I’m going to move away
as soon as I can travel.”

“Don’t do that,” pleaded Nibble. “If he bit your foot you certainly
bit his. Now he doesn’t mean ever to use those jaws again. He threw
them into that very hole.”

Pop! Down went the doctor to have a look. And his face was mighty
surprised when it popped up again. “It’s the truth!” he said. “Those
jaws are biting the mud. We needn’t worry so long as we can keep an
eye on them. Nibble, I’ll just dip a whisker into that present Tommy
Peele left for me!”

And he liked the meal quite as well as Nibble had—better, in fact. “I
tell you what, Nibble,” he said as he stopped for breath, “this was
mighty thoughtful of that Man. Now I wonder if he knew that I couldn’t
dig or swim with my paw hurting me, because his paw was hurting him? I
hope not.”

And that was very nice of him, because it was all Tommy’s fault in the
beginning. Tommy had deliberately set that trap.

Chaik the Jay swallowed such a big beakful of meal that he had to
crane his neck over it; then he blinked very seriously because Nibble
was giggling at him. “Do you s’pose we could all trust Tommy the way
Nibble can if we all were friends with him?” he demanded.

“Of course, of course!” chirped the enthusiastic Chickadee.

“Hm!” sniffed old Doctor Muskrat a bit gruffly, “that sounds very well
from you birds. You have wings so you can fly away from him.”

“Certainly,” Chaik retorted, “but I’ve never seen him swim.”

“Hmm, hmm!” the doctor snorted again. And he hitched himself on his
three sound legs over to a big stone that had grown warm in the sun
and spread himself out flat like a small furry rug. He meant to think
it over. But he felt so comfortable and full that he fell into a
snooze.

Nibble was snoozing, too, snuggled up beside him, but he awoke when he
heard Tommy’s tall rubber boots splattering through the slush. His
father had put a patch on the hole, when he was mending an automobile
tire, so it was as good as ever. Nibble nudged the doctor and then
hurried over to greet Tommy, jumping the splashiest puddles and
pattering right through the little ones because he didn’t want his
friend to think Chaik and Chewee were the only ones who’d take the
trouble. And Tommy took an ear of corn out of his pocket and shared it
between them.

Then Tommy ordered Watch to stay back while he tried to speak to
Doctor Muskrat. And the old doctor didn’t flash right into the
water—as he really meant to. He sat up, holding his poor paw in front
of him, and squinted his eyes to get a good look at the little boy. He
didn’t even jump when Tommy laid down the other ear of corn, nor when
Watch came sneaking disobediently up behind him because he wanted to
poke his nose into what was going on. For Tommy caught him by the fur
and pointed that inquisitive nose straight at the doctor. “There,” he
ordered, “take a good smell so you’ll know him again. That’s my
muskrat!”

And Nibble was so pleased he took a leap and kicked his furry heels so
high that Tommy laughed at him. “You’re safe! You’re safe!” he
rejoiced. “Isn’t it almost worth being caught for?”

[Illustration: Tommy’s tall rubber boots spattered through the slush.]

And Doctor Muskrat considered his sore paw and then he considered the
little boy. And he looked very thoughtful.




                             CHAPTER XIII

                     WISE WORDS FROM A WISE BEAST


Neither Nibble Rabbit, nor Chaik Jay, nor Chewee the Chickadee, nor
all of them together could make Doctor Muskrat say what he thought of
Tommy Peele.

“No,” he insisted, “I haven’t made up my mind. It’s a safe rule for
any beast to do as his kind have done before him, and I never knew any
muskrats who made friends with a man.”

“Nor any man who wanted to be friends with a muskrat, either,” pleaded
Nibble. “Tommy Peele’s different.”

“That’s the way with men,” said the doctor. “They’re always changing.
Only the wild things stay the same.”

“What is Man, anyway?” Nibble asked. “He isn’t a bird and he isn’t a
fish, and of course he isn’t a snake. But the bats, who came to my
storm party in the cornstalk tent, said he couldn’t be a beast because
he hadn’t any tail.”

“Nonsense!” snorted the doctor. “Tad Coon’s cousin, the bear, hasn’t
any more tail than that. What did the bats think he was?”

“A kind of a frog,” said Nibble promptly. “But Chatter Squirrel didn’t
agree with them.”

“A frog! A frog! Had those bats ever seen a man, then? Or a frog,
either? Eh?” And the doctor made such a face of disdain that his
whiskers bristled up like a lot of long darning needles on Granny’s
fat pin cushion. “Why, a frog is less than a beast and a man—well,
there used to be a tale going around when I wasn’t much bigger than
Chewee there that Man was kin to Mother Nature herself in the very
First-Off Beginning.” The old muskrat sank his head back between his
shoulders and half closed his eyes.

“Go on,” said Nibble breathlessly.

“Eh? What?” The doctor came back with a start as though the shadow of
an owl had passed near him. “I was just thinking about that winter.
There was a big family of us the year I was born, for food was very
plentiful. So were minks. And when my mother thought she heard one
sniffing close by she’d tell us stories to keep us quiet. Otherwise we
wriggled around in that dark old house like a lot of tadpoles, popping
in and out of the water until you could almost swim on the very floor,
it was so wet from our dripping. And when we got to romping we’d
squeal more than a whole stump full of fieldmice.” Nibble couldn’t
imagine the dignified, portly old fellow scuttling and squeaking. A
rabbit hole is always very quiet. Because it’s on the ground and so
many hunters might hear it if it weren’t.

“I just remember,” finished the doctor, “that one of our favourite
tales was about how Man quarrelled with Mother Nature in the First-Off
Beginning. She was used to the wild things. And most of them,
excepting the ones who came up from under the earth, are very
obedient. But Man just wouldn’t obey her. And she wouldn’t stand that,
because it would be unfair to the rest of us, and because he was kin
to her. So she said he could try getting along without her help and
see how he liked that. And he certainly surprised her. He——”

But that’s as far as the wise old fellow ever got. For right then
there came a most startling interruption. And so many brand-new
happenings began that I’ll have to write a whole brand-new book to
tell about them all.

                               THE END

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NIBBLE RABBIT MAKES MORE FRIENDS ***

***** This file should be named 64078-0.txt or 64078-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    https://www.gutenberg.org/6/4/0/7/64078/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

